# pixi-diff-to-markdown

`pixi-diff-to-markdown` is a tool that generates markdown from a JSON diff that's generated by `pixi update --json`.
It reads from the standard input and writes to the standard output.

```bash
pixi update --json | pixi-diff-to-markdown update > diff.md
```

Example output:

TODO

> [!TIP]
> The sorting of the tables is done by `environment`, `platform` and alphabetically.

## Installation

You can install `pixi-diff-to-markdown` using `pip` or `pixi`.

```bash
# via pixi
pixi global install pixi-diff-to-markdown
# via pip
pip install pixi-diff-to-markdown
```

## Configuration

Depending on your use case, you may want to configure the output of `pixi-diff-to-markdown`.
You can do this by creating a configuration section in `pixi.toml` or `pyproject.toml`.

```toml
# defaults
[tool.pixi-diff-to-markdown]
split-tables = "platform"
enable-change-type-column = true
enable-explicit-column = false
enable-package-type-column = false
```

You can also override the configuration options by passing them as arguments to `pixi-diff-to-markdown`.

```bash
pixi update --json | pixi-diff-to-markdown update --split-tables=platform --enable-explicit-column
```

### `split-tables`

Depending on the amount of `environments` and `platforms` you have in your `pixi.toml`, it might make sense to either split the tables or not.
For a large amount of `environments` and `platforms`, it might be easier to read the output if the tables are all merged into one.
`split-tables` can be set to one of the following values:

- `no`: Don't split the tables, they will all be merged into one ([example](TODO)).
- `environment`: Create a table for each `environment` ([example](TODO)).
- `platform`: Split the tables by `platform` and `environment`, the most fine grained level ([example](TODO)).

### `enable-change-type-column`

Whether to enable the `Change` column in the output.

### `enable-explicit-column`

Whether to enable the `Explicit` column in the output.
If a dependency is explicitly defined in `pixi.toml`, it will be marked as `Explicit`. Otherwise, it will be marked as `Implicit`.

If this is set to `false`, the `Explicit` column will be omitted and the explicitly defined dependencies will be marked as *cursive*.

### `enable-package-type-column`

Whether to enable the `Package Type` column in the output.
This column will show whether the dependency is a `conda` or `pypi` package.
